# LangGraph 101

The purpose of this repo is to just document my learning of LangGraph and LangSmith. Most of the tutorials used will be YT videos, each video will be linked and underneath will be notes I took from the video. This `README` specifically will be the equivalent of a notebook.


# LangGraph Complete Course for Beginners (freecodecamp)
https://youtu.be/jGg_1h0qzaM?feature=shared
- in this video I create the Agents the instructor does, then build off what I have to complete the video exercises

### Theory of LangGraph
- **Typed Dictionary**: dictionary object that defines the data type for each key object, important for preventing KeyErrors and gives type saftey down the line when building complex systems.
```python
# how to import the TypeDict library
from typing import TypeDict
```
- **State**: the State of an Agent/Graph is a shared memory (usually a DB) for the agent. This object stores things that the agent would need to get its task done, holding the entire context of the entire application. 
- **Nodes**: nodes are individual functions/operations that perform specific tasks within the graph structure (THESE ARE NOT THE SAME AS TOOLS).
- **Graph**: graphs are the backbone of LangGraph, graphs are made up of a `START` point, nodes, and `END` points. Nodes can call tools to do an action (`ToolNode`). The graph structure maps out how each node is connected and executed. The graph structure is known as the WORKFLOW of the agent.
- **Edges**: The nodes are connected via edges, there are two types of edge definitions in LangGraph. (1) Normal edges, this just means nodes are connected in the sequential order needed and (2) Conditional edges, for the connection to be made to a node a condition has to be meet. For example if we have a driving agent and they make it to a traffic light, the next action would either be to press the brake or press the gas but the choice is based on if the light is either red, yellow, or green.
- **START**: in LangGraph `START` is the entry point for the workflow.
- **END**: endpoint for the workflow
$$START -> node -> node -> END$$
- **Tools**: specialized functions that nodes can use to perform specific tasks, tools are the functionalies used *within* nodes.
    - `ToolNode` is a special kind of node whose main job is to run a tool, this directly connects the tool's output back to the State.
- **StateGraph**: in LangGraph specifically this is used to build and compile the graph struture. This is called after the nodes and edges have been defined.
- **Messages**: This is an important concept within LLM and agent building, and these are what the chat models use to communicate:
    - `Human`: represents input from a user
    - `System`: used to provide instructions or context to the model
    - `Function`: represents the result of a function call
    - `AI`: represents responses generated by AI models
    - `Tool`:  similar to function, but specific to *tools*

